Update/quota mgmt transactions updates (#4639)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/accounts/quotas/manage-transaction-quota.mdx

---
title: Manage Your Transaction Quota
keywords: ["best practices"]
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how to use the tools Sentry provides to control the type and amount of transactions that are monitored."
---

> In most cases, sending all transaction events to Sentry would generate more performance data than you might find useful and might use up your events quota too quickly. Sentry provides tools to control the _type_ and _amount_ of transactions that are monitored. This allows you to have transaction data that's actionable and meaningful, and to manage your quota if you're on an event-quota based plan. Applying the proper SDK configuration is an iterative and on-going process, but these tips will show you how to best use Sentry's tools to get the most out of your transaction events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, sending all transaction events to Sentry would generate more performance data than you might find useful and might use up your transactions quota too quickly. Sentry provides tools to control the _type_ and _amount_ of transactions that are monitored. This allows you to have transaction data that's actionable and meaningful, and to manage your quota. Applying the proper SDK configuration is an iterative and on-going process, but these tips will show you how to best use Sentry's tools to get the most out of your transaction events.
```

Should we be more explict on which quota is consumed?  I don't know if we need to mention 'if you are on an event-quota based plan' as all transaction customers will be on one of those. 🤷

Author: both of these suggestions make sense to me. I'll apply them to the errors quota guide as well.

- **Accepted**: Events processed and displayed in the issues or transactions views in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).
- **Dropped**: Events that were discarded due to a limit being hit.
- **Filtered**: Events that were blocked based on your inbound filter rules.

![Overview of Usage Stats page](../../stats/usage-stats.png)

You can also download monthly reports with a similar breakdown of all your previous billing periods under **Settings > Subscription** in the "Usage History" tab.

### What are my busiest projects?

The "Project" table in the "Usage Stats" tab of **Stats** breaks down your events by project so you can see which ones are consuming your quota. Clicking on the settings icon next to a project name in the table will open the project's settings, where you can manage its inbound filters and rate limits

You can also download monthly reports that provide a breakdown of events by project under **Settings > Subscription** in the "Usage History" tab.

### Which transactions are consuming my quota?

> <!-- does this make sense for transactions? -->

Reviewer: I think this is a good section to have. It gives customers a way to find out what is going on in their account and encourages using Discover too.

> 
> <!-- does this make sense for transactions? -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Manage Your Transaction Quota
keywords: ["best practices"]
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how to use the tools Sentry provides to control the type and amount of transactions that are monitored."
---

> In most cases, sending all transaction events to Sentry would generate more performance data than you would find meaningful and would use up your events quota too quickly. Sentry provides tools to control the _type_ and _amount_ of transactions that are monitored. This allows you to have transaction data that's actionable and meaningful and to manage your quotas if you're on an event-quota based plan. Applying the proper SDK configuration is an iterative and on-going process, but these tips will show you how to best use Sentry's tools to get the most out of your transaction events.

Author: ```suggestion
In most cases, sending all transaction events to Sentry would generate more performance data than you might find useful and might use up your events quota too quickly. Sentry provides tools to control the _type_ and _amount_ of transactions that are monitored. This allows you to have transaction data that's actionable and meaningful, and to manage your quota if you're on an event-quota based plan. Applying the proper SDK configuration is an iterative and on-going process, but these tips will show you how to best use Sentry's tools to get the most out of your transaction events.
```

## 1. SDK Filtering: beforeSend

All Sentry SDKs support the `beforeSend` callback method. Once implemented, the method is invoked when the SDK captures an event, right before sending it to your Sentry account. It receives the event object as a parameter, so you can use that to modify the event's data or drop it completely (by returning `null`) based on your custom logic and the data available on the event, like _tags_, _environment_, _release version_, and so on. Learn more in [Filtering Events](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/filtering/).

## 2. SDK Configuration: Tracing Options

> When you configure your the SDK, you can control the number of transactions that are sent to Sentry by setting the [tracing options](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/options/#tracing-options). You can also set up [custom instrumentation](/platform-redirect/?next=/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/) for performance monitoring to capture certain types of transactions.

Author: ```suggestion
When you configure your the SDK, you can control the number of transactions that are sent to Sentry by setting the [tracing options](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/options/%23tracing-options). You can also set up [custom instrumentation](/platform-redirect/?next=/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/) for performance monitoring to capture certain types of transactions.
```

## 3. Event Usage Stats

> Once you've completed the steps above, you can look at your events in aggregate in the "Usage Stats" tab of **Stats**. This information will help you answer some key questions like:
> 
> - What's the breakdowndown of my incoming events?
> - Which projects are consuming my quota?
> - Which issues are consuming my quota?
> 
> The answers to these questions can help you figure out where you need to do further fine-tuning of your SDK filters and configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
Once you've completed the steps above, you can look at your events in aggregate in the "Usage Stats" tab of **Stats**. This information will help you answer key questions about the breakdown of your incoming events or which projects are consuming your quota. The answers to these questions can help you figure out where you need to do further fine-tuning of your SDK filters and configuration.
```

### How can I see a breakdown of incoming events?

> The "[Usage Stats](/product/stats/#usage-stats)" tab displays details about the total number of events Sentry has received across your entire organization for up to 90 days. The page breaks down the events by project into three categories:

Author: ```suggestion
The [Usage Stats](/product/stats/#usage-stats) tab displays details about the total number of events Sentry has received across your entire organization for up to 90 days. The page breaks down the events, by project, into three categories:
```

- **Accepted**: Events processed and displayed in the issues or transactions views in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).
- **Dropped**: Events that were discarded due to a limit being hit.
- **Filtered**: Events that were blocked based on your inbound filter rules.

![Overview of Usage Stats page](../../stats/usage-stats.png)

You can also download monthly reports with a similar breakdown of all your previous billing periods under **Settings > Subscription** in the "Usage History" tab.

### What are my busiest projects?

> The "Project" table in the "Usage Stats" tab of **Stats** breaks down your events by project, so you can see which ones are consuming your quota.Clicking on the settings icon next to a project name in the table will open the project's settings page where you can manage its inbound filters and rate limits

Author: ```suggestion
The "Project" table in the "Usage Stats" tab of **Stats** breaks down your events by project so you can see which ones are consuming your quota. Clicking on the settings icon next to a project name in the table will open the project's settings, where you can manage its inbound filters and rate limits
```

You can also download monthly reports that provide a breakdown of events by project under **Settings > Subscription** in the "Usage History" tab.

### Which transactions are consuming my quota?

<!-- does this make sense for transactions? -->

> You can set up a query in **Discover** to see which transactions consume you're receiving the most and if you want to adjust that. When you're building the query, search for `event.type:transaction` and then set the columns to `transaction`, `title`, `project`, and `count`, as shown below:

Author: ```suggestion
You can set up a query in **Discover** to see which transactions you're receiving the most and if you want to adjust that. When you're building the query, search for `event.type:transaction` and then set the columns to `transaction`, `project`, and `count`, as shown below:
```
